<!--
# WordCamp Sponsorship
-->
# WordCamp スポンサーシップ

<!--
<p>WordCamps are a great opportunity for companies that benefit from a free and open source software like WordPress to give back to the project that’s given them so much. Many companies are built around WordPress. A company that sponsors might have a lot of customers who love WordPress; other companies might just use WordPress, love it, and want to give back.</p>
-->
<p>WordCamp は WordPress のようなオープンソースソフトウェアからの恩恵を受けている企業にとって、そのたくさんの恩恵をもたらした WordPress プロジェクトに恩返しができる絶好の機会です。多くの企業が WordPress の周りで立ち上げられています。WordCamp のスポンサーをしているある会社は WordPress を愛する数多くの顧客を持っているかもしれません。また他のある会社は WordPress を使っているだけかもしれませんし、 WordPress を愛しているかもしれませんし、恩返しをしたいかもしれません。</p>

## WordCamp sponsorship packages

Setting up your local sponsorship packages can be a challenge. Not everyone is accustomed to fundraising, and some organizers develop a nasty case of [impostor syndrome](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Impostor_syndrome) when they start looking at how to acknowledge companies that give their event a chunk of cash to help make WordCamp happen. The WordCamp program has an established set of sponsorship rules, which apply to your event. So how do you set up WordCamp sponsorship packages that show gratitude to your sponsors but don’t give away the store?

We’ve assembled some common WordCamp sponsor acknowledgement methods that are appropriate, respectful of attendees, and easy for your volunteer organizing team to follow through on.  Mix and match to create your own packages\*!

*   Logo on the site
*   Company description on the site.
    *   **Note:** Each sponsor has its own Custom Post Type in the sponsor section of your WordCamp site. You can add sponsor info here. The published page is visible at `CITYNAME.wordcamp.org/YEAR/sponsors`, and individually at `CITYNAME.wordcamp.org/YEAR/sponsor/NAME-OF-SPONSOR`
    *   **Example** of Custom Post Type: [https://europe.wordcamp.org/2022/sponsor/weglot](https://europe.wordcamp.org/2022/sponsor/weglot/)
*   Thanks in a blog post thanking all sponsors just before the event
    *   **Example:** [https://europe.wordcamp.org/2022/introducing-our-administrator-sponsors](https://europe.wordcamp.org/2022/introducing-our-administrator-sponsors/)
*   Tickets (reserved and/or complimentary) for company representatives of the sponsor
*   A certain number of items on the self-serve swag table
*   Logo on slide projected between presentations
*   Tweet(s) and/or posts to Facebook (etc) thanking the sponsor
*   Logo on name badge (good for the top package)
*   Thanks in pre- and/or post-event emails (good for the top package)
*   Thank you in opening or closing remarks (good for the top package)
*   A table at the event in a high traffic area (good for the top package)

*\* You don’t have to use all of them! Really!*

In general, sponsors are not looking for a laundry list of perks, they want to support WordCamp and WordPress.  Offering space for your top sponsors to connect with the attendees is generally the most desirable benefit, but not a requirement. Certainly attendees should never be inconvenienced by sponsor acknowledgement, and WordCamps never provide a speaker slot or attendee information to sponsors.

WordCamps are expected to honor the [WordPress.org privacy policy](https://wordpress.org/about/privacy/). With that in mind, WordCamp organizers are never allowed to provide attendee information (i.e., email addresses) to sponsors as a part of a sponsorship package.

More questions? Ask our Sponsorship Squad in the [#community-events](https://make.wordpress.org/community/tag/community-events/) channel at wordpress.slack.com!

## WordCamp sponsorship rules

<table><tbody><tr><td>1. Sponsor may provide:<p>&nbsp;</p><ul><li>The sponsor’s name and logo</li><li>Slogans that are an established part of the sponsor’s image</li><li>The sponsor’s brands and trade names</li><li>On the WordCamp site only one brand will be listed</li><li>It is allowed to mention multiple brands in the sponsor’s bio if they are affiliated, but it will be included only one brand link</li><li>During the WordCamp, at the sponsor’s booth, the sponsor can mention and provide multiple sponsor materials</li><li>Sponsor contact information (such as telephone numbers, email addresses, and URLs)</li><li>Factual (value-neutral) displays of actual products</li><li>Displays or handout materials (such as brochures) with factual, non-comparative descriptions or listings of products or services</li><li>Price information, or other indications of savings or value, if factual and provable</li><li>Inducements to purchase or use the Sponsor’s products or services, for example by providing coupons or discount purchase codes (subject to approval)</li><li>Calls to action, such as “visit this site for details”, “call now for a special offer”, “join our league of savings”, etc.</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>2. Sponsors may not provide:<p>&nbsp;</p><ul><li>Promotional or marketing material containing superlative messages or unprovable claims about the Sponsor, its products or services, such as “the first name in WordPress hosting”, “the easiest way to launch your site”, or “the best e-commerce <span tabindex="0" class="glossary-item-container">plugin<span class="glossary-item-hidden-content"><span class="glossary-item-header">Plugin</span> <span class="glossary-item-description">A plugin is a piece of software containing a group of functions that can be added to a WordPress website. They can extend functionality or add new features to your WordPress websites. WordPress plugins are written in the PHP programming language and integrate seamlessly with WordPress. These can be free in the WordPress.org Plugin Directory https://wordpress.org/plugins/ or can be cost-based plugin from a third-party</span></span></span>”</li><li>Claims that WordPress, <span tabindex="0" class="glossary-item-container">WordPress Foundation<span class="glossary-item-hidden-content"><span class="glossary-item-header">WordPress Foundation</span> <span class="glossary-item-description">The WordPress Foundation is a charitable organization founded by Matt Mullenweg to further the mission of the WordPress open source project: to democratize publishing through Open Source, GPL software. Find more on <a href="https://wordpressfoundation.org/">wordpressfoundation.org</a>.</span></span></span>, <span tabindex="0" class="glossary-item-container">meetup<span class="glossary-item-hidden-content"><span class="glossary-item-header">Meetup</span> <span class="glossary-item-description">Meetup groups are locally-organized groups that get together for face-to-face events on a regular basis (commonly once a month). Learn more about Meetups in our <a href="https://make.wordpress.org/community/handbook/meetup-organizer/">Meetup Organizer Handbook</a>.</span></span></span> organizers, WordCamps, or WordCamp organizers endorse or favor a Sponsor or its products or services (such as “certified WordPress training” or “WordCamp’s favorite plugin”)</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>3. Sponsors agree that the WordPress Foundation, any subsidiary or related entity of the Foundation, and WordCamp organizers have the right to request and review sponsor materials in advance of an event, to require changes to any materials in advance, and to require that any materials that do not meet the above expectations be taken down or that any practices that do not meet the above expectations be discontinued during a WordCamp or event. The above restrictions also apply to material placed on any self-serve swag tables reserved for sponsor use.</td></tr><tr><td>4. All sponsors are expected to support the WordPress project and its principles, including:<p>&nbsp;</p><ul><li>No discrimination on the basis of economic or social status, race, color, ethnic origin, national origin, creed, religion, political belief, sex, sexual orientation, marital status, age, caste, social class, or disability.</li><li>No incitement to violence or promotion of hate</li><li>No spammers</li><li>No jerks</li><li>Respect the WordPress trademark.</li><li>Embrace the WordPress license; If distributing WordPress-derivative works (themes, plugins, WP distros), any person or business officially associated with WordCamp should give their users the same freedoms that WordPress itself provides: 100% <span tabindex="0" class="glossary-item-container">GPL<span class="glossary-item-hidden-content"><span class="glossary-item-header">GPL</span> <span class="glossary-item-description">GPL is an acronym for GNU Public License. It is the standard license WordPress uses for Open Source licensing <a href="https://wordpress.org/about/license/">https://wordpress.org/about/license/</a>. The GPL is a ‘copyleft’ license <a href="https://www.gnu.org/licenses/copyleft.en.html">https://www.gnu.org/licenses/copyleft.en.html</a>. This means that derivative work can only be distributed under the same license terms. This is in distinction to permissive free software licenses, of which the BSD license and the MIT License are widely used examples.</span></span></span> or compatible, the same guidelines we follow on <span tabindex="0" class="glossary-item-container">WordPress.org<span class="glossary-item-hidden-content"><span class="glossary-item-header">WordPress.org</span> <span class="glossary-item-description">The community site where WordPress code is created and shared by the users. This is where you can download the source code for WordPress core, plugins and themes as well as the central location for community conversations and organization. <a href="https://wordpress.org/">https://wordpress.org/</a></span></span></span>. ***Note: this is one step above simple compliance, which requires <span tabindex="0" class="glossary-item-container">PHP<span class="glossary-item-hidden-content"><span class="glossary-item-header">PHP</span> <span class="glossary-item-description">PHP (recursive acronym for PHP: Hypertext Preprocessor) is a widely-used open source general-purpose scripting language that is especially suited for web development and can be embedded into HTML. <a href="https://www.php.net/manual/en/preface.php">https://www.php.net/manual/en/preface.php</a>.</span></span></span> code to be GPL / compatible but allows proprietary licenses for <span tabindex="0" class="glossary-item-container">JavaScript<span class="glossary-item-hidden-content"><span class="glossary-item-header">JavaScript</span> <span class="glossary-item-description">JavaScript or JS is an object-oriented computer programming language commonly used to create interactive effects within web browsers. WordPress makes extensive use of JS for a better user experience. While PHP is executed on the server, JS executes within a user’s browser. <a href="https://www.javascript.com/">https://www.javascript.com/</a>.</span></span></span>, <span tabindex="0" class="glossary-item-container">CSS<span class="glossary-item-hidden-content"><span class="glossary-item-header">CSS</span> <span class="glossary-item-description">CSS is an acronym for cascading style sheets. This is what controls the design or look and feel of a site.</span></span></span>, and images. 100% GPL or compatible is required for promotion at WordCamps when WordPress-derivative works are involved, the same guidelines we follow on WordPress.org.***</li><li>Don’t promote companies or people that violate the trademark or distribute WordPress derivative works which aren’t 100% GPL compatible.</li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>5. Sponsorship is in no way connected to the opportunity to speak at an official WordPress event and does not alter the WordPress or WordCamp trademark usage policy found at <a href="http://wordpressfoundation.org/" rel="nofollow">http://wordpressfoundation.org/</a>. The WordPress Foundation and any subsidiary or related entity of the Foundation reserve the right to modify the above requirements and expectations at any time by providing written notice to the sponsor.</td></tr><tr><td>6. Due to the variety of regulations surrounding the act of selling physical goods and the potential for liability to fall on the <span tabindex="0" class="glossary-item-container">WPCS<span class="glossary-item-hidden-content"><span class="glossary-item-header">WordPress Community Support</span> <span class="glossary-item-description">WordPress Community Support PBC is a Public Benefit Corporation, created specifically to be the financial and legal support for WordCamps, WordPress Meetup groups, and any additional “official” events organized within the WordPress Community Events program.</span></span></span>, selling physical goods at a WordCamp is not allowed.</td></tr></tbody></table>

Here is [a quiz](https://wordpress.org/contributor-training/quiz/wordcamp-sponsorship-2/) on this article. Read [quizzes](https://make.wordpress.org/community/handbook/wordcamp-organizer/quizzes/) page if you have any questions about quizzes and how to navigate them.

*   [To-do](# "To-do")
