<!--
# Sponsor Email
-->
# スポンサーへのメール

This is a template that may inspire the text for your local Meetup group page. Feel free to copy and paste this template and customize it for your area.

About \[Your Group Name\] User Group \[Your Group Name\] is a casual, volunteer-organized, non-profit meetup covering everything related to WordPress the free and open source publishing software that powers more than 27% of websites on the Internet. \[Your Group Name\] is very active and meets \[number of events\] a month. We cater to people across the spectrum when it comes to WordPress familiarity and use, from beginners who need technical support, training and information to developers who are looking to sharpen their skills. Our events tend to attract between \[number\] – \[number\] members a month, and reach an active group of nationwide \[National Community\] users and professionals as well. In \[Your Town\] we have \[number\] formal events every month, with other events happening as members choose to organize them. \[Event 1\] \[Event 2\] etc. Why Sponsor \[Your Group Name\]? By sponsoring \[Your Group Name\] you will have the opportunity to partner with a key target audience of WordPress users, designers, developers, and business people. This group of decision makers are sophisticated web professionals and heavily dependent on web services. By sponsoring \[Your Group Name\], you are not only presenting yourself to the attendees of this event, but also gaining exposure throughout their network of WordPress users and web professionals around the world. WordPress users are heavily connected, not just locally but internationally, so your support may be observed, not just in \[your town/country\], but also beyond. What will your sponsorship do? WordPress meetups are strongly geared towards making WordPress as open and accessible to anyone who is interested in learning about using it, developing for it, or making a business out of it. Our meetups are inclusive, welcoming and open to anyone at no cost. Sponsorships allow us to offer the Meetup to our members with food and a great venue for free. What will \[Your Group Name\] do for you? In return for your sponsorship, we will feature your logo, URL and a short description on our Meetup page and website. We will add your logo and details, with a description of your business on our Meetup news slides and give you a shout out at the event. From time to time, we will send you updates of what your sponsorship has done for WordPress \[your-town\], including pictures of recent events. Thank you for taking the time to consider sponsoring \[Your Group Name\]. Please do not hesitate to contact us if you would like to discuss this further or have any questions. We looking forward to the possibility of working with you. \[Your Group Name\]

*   [To-do](# "To-do")
